(1:19) **Texture**: Can you hear me?

(1:27) **Jaime**: Can you hear me? Yes, I can. Excellent.

(2:28) **Texture**: I think technically fall starts either 21st or 22nd. But 
spiritually, it starts after Labor Day, of course. I don't know if anyone has a 
white suit.

(2:55) **Jaime**: Might have to see that. White suit's pretty nice.

(3:02) **Texture**: I may have a photo. I think it's been worn to two sort of 
summer weddings. And that's the only time it's been.

(3:16) **Jaime**: Yeah. Texture, welcome.

(3:23) **Texture**: We had him. We lost him.

(3:31) **Jaime**: Give it a few more minutes for some more folks to pile in. 
Yeah, yeah. Spiritually, fall is here.

(3:55) **Texture**: By the way, for Spaces resiliency, Chad GPT is recommending 
two co-hosts up front. Now, do we already have the two? Or can you add another 
one?

(4:06) **Jaime**: Yeah. You and Bob are co-hosts.

(4:10) **Texture**: Okay. Just appears as speaker to me. Maybe it appears as 
co-host to Bob on Bob's side.

(4:18) **Bob**: It appears so.

(4:20) **Texture**: I see it now. Okay. Fantastic.

(4:33) **Jaime**: All right. Cool.

(4:36) **Texture**: Very, very kind of cool August. For those of us who spent 
some of it in New York, like August is supposed to be hot. And it mostly wasn't.

(4:57) **Jaime**: Yeah, completely agree. A lot of long sleeves and sweatshirts 
during the night.

(5:09) **Texture**: Cooler. You guys are old. Been around talking about the 
weather.

(5:15) **Jaime**: We're waiting for you.

(5:16) **Texture**: Well, I'm here.

(5:18) **Jaime**: Even better. Welcome.

(5:21) **Texture**: What's up?

(5:23) **Jaime**: GM. Yeah, great to kick this off. I'll hand the mic over to 
Bob, but I just want to pay my compliments to your PFT texture.

(5:37) **Texture**: So, welcome. Do you own a texture pump?

(5:40) **Jaime**: I do not. But I saw a few folks with them and obviously 
noticed yours. So, Mike might have to get one.

(5:51) **Texture**: It was a joke because I thought punks were ugly. So, I made 
myself a better one. And then a friend asked me to make her one.

(6:14) **Jaime**: That's some good lore. That's some great lore right there.

(6:20) **Texture**: I thought it was going to be me and my hundred friends.

(6:26) **Bob**: Accidental success. Fantastic. Great.

(6:38) **Texture**: How are you? It's been a while. It's been a long time.

(6:44) **Bob**: When I think of you, the first thing I think of is love.

(6:49) **Texture**: Oh.

(6:52) **Bob**: And something I've spotted going through making my notes is 
your medium is called Peace Love Revolution. Yes. So, what's the story there?

(7:06) **Texture**: So, you know, I was kind of, I wouldn't say a hippie. I 
didn't dress like a hippie. I didn't really hang out with hippies, but I took 
some psychedelics when I was a kid and I had some experiences and kind of drove 
my passion for doing good things and spreading love in the world.

(8:29) **Jaime**: Okay.

(8:31) **Texture**: But it helped me, you know, it was my first foray into cult 
building, which obviously. Right.

(8:36) **Bob**: Very useful.

(8:38) **Texture**: I took into my role in Ethereum and I feel like the 
Ethereum cult is going pretty well.

(8:43) **Bob**: I seem to remember at some point you told me that you probably 
hugged a thousand random people on the street.

(8:49) **Texture**: Oh, a thousand in a day. Probably probably a hundred 
thousand or more. Yeah.

(9:12) **Bob**: I mean, I can see why Decentralized Dance Party also appealed 
to you on that score.

(9:18) **Texture**: Yeah, that's so DDP. Gary, the guy who runs that, he came 
and stayed in my apartment in Brooklyn. And we had this three story loft in a 
warehouse and we'd let people come crash and he came through.

(9:55) **Bob**: I'll drop some links on Twitter for that for anyone who hasn't 
seen Decentralized Dance Party or you can go and have a Google on your own. 
It's quite exceptional.

(10:07) **Texture**: It's funny. I had a no. I didn't really understand the 
decentralized thing at that point.

(10:19) **Bob**: For sure. So yeah, that's Gary Lachance, who was a fellow 
Vancouverite with me. He was, funnily enough, in a photo for the very first 
item I could find about Vancouver Decentral.

(11:04) **Texture**: It's pretty fun.

(11:10) **Bob**: So tell me about the vision that you had, which was then the 
same as the white paper. Because on the Twitter thread, I was wrongly saying 
your mind was blown by the Ethereum white paper, where actually what happened 
was that you'd had a vision of this about a week before, and then the white 
paper landed on your lap. So what the hell was that about?

(11:40) **Texture**: Yeah. So what actually happened was I had a roommate for 
years ago, like years when I lived in New York, and he had tried to get me into 
Bitcoin when it was a dollar. And I said, this is like internet nerd money.

(16:00) **Bob**: Was that Watercooler?

(16:02) **Texture**: No, no, no. Watercooler was something I made later because.

(16:04) **Bob**: That was later.

(16:05) **Texture**: Yeah, so that was just the literal like main Ethereum 
Skype channel that we used to communicate for the first. I don't know. Long 
time.

(16:27) **Bob**: I guess it's off topic or whatever. Probably off topic chatty 
thing.

(16:30) **Texture**: Maybe, but like I was kind of like the dude that everybody 
trusted. And so like whenever anybody wanted to talk to somebody, they would 
come talk to me. Which is why I got so much information about what was going on 
all the time.

(16:51) **Bob**: So when when do you think you had that trip to Washington? 
When do you think that would have been?

(16:59) **Texture**: I'm horrible with the time and dates, especially during 
that time. You know, when you're like a free flowing hippie dude. Yeah.

(17:17) **Bob**: Right, right.

(17:18) **Texture**: His original group of people to get the feedback on.

(17:22) **Bob**: Yeah, so it might even have been during November still.

(17:27) **Texture**: Yeah. I mean, it was as early as you could get. I mean, 
just by happenstance, just by the timing, I was there.

(17:38) **Bob**: Yeah. It's amazing. Because, yeah.

(18:00) **Texture**: Yeah. So we've been. Yeah.

(18:11) **Bob**: Yeah. I mean, the funny thing was looking at that. That's 
before there was any code.

(18:25) **Texture**: Yeah. And Jeff, to my understanding, just read the white 
paper and started coding it up on his own. And said, hey, I've got this go 
implementation.

(18:34) **Bob**: Yeah. Pretty much. And the same for Gav.

(18:45) **Texture**: Yeah. No, it was great. And I'd been a developer my whole 
life since I was a kid.

(19:09) **Bob**: So, I mean, to you at that point, what was Ethereum? What was 
this vision? And what were you thinking that that could unfold to be?

(19:28) **Texture**: Yeah. So, I mean, it's so hard to remember those days. 
There's so much on top of it now.

(21:02) **Bob**: Social operating system is something I've seen you say on a 
few occasions.

(21:07) **Texture**: Yeah. There's so many dimensions to it. A social operating 
system for allowing people to encode their values or encode their values, 
anything with value.

(22:09) **Bob**: Yeah. I mean, I think in my own sort of thinking in those 
early days, it was an awful lot about empowerment and about giving people the 
ability to control their own destiny, right? Yeah.

(22:34) **Texture**: Maslow. The hierarchy.

(22:35) **Bob**: Yeah. Maslow's. Maslow's hierarchy of needs.

(23:04) **Texture**: Yeah.

(23:04) **Bob**: And how wonderful would it be if you could like yank up that 
base layer a little bit so that people are not like living in this fearful 
place of powerlessness. But instead can be like not worrying about that shit 
and not having to make these compromised bad decisions and everything. But just 
if you could do what you love, what a world that would be.

(23:33) **Texture**: Yeah. And I'm a lot less idealistic about it now after the 
last decade for a lot of reasons. But the marshmallow test is real and you can 
create really good technologies and really good user experiences and as many 
guardrails as you can for people.

(24:38) **Bob**: Well, I mean, something that I saw in those early days of 
Ethereum as well was a real kind of almost like allergic reaction to anything 
that looked like organization or hierarchy or structure. You know, just like 
this total flip to the opposite side, right? Everything's got to be flat and 
open and, you know, everyone involved with everything, which is just completely 
impractical for actually organizing or doing anything.

(25:24) **Texture**: Yeah. And I think a lot of times what happens in that is 
smart people, you know, smart people, they don't really understand not smart 
people. And so what happens is we are born into a world where these 
pre-existing hierarchies exist and they, you know, to some degree or another, 
you know, kind of persisted through generation after generation.

(28:19) **Bob**: Yeah. I mean, I guess it's a little bit analogous to sort of 
technical death and things in code.

(28:25) **Texture**: Yep.

(28:25) **Bob**: If you've got code and there's like, Jesus, look at this. It's 
so much like complexity and these conditions. I don't think we need any of that.

(28:39) **Texture**: Yeah.

(28:39) **Bob**: You may not know the reason, but, you know, it was done for a 
reason. And, you know, you're going to have some consequence if you if you do 
that. Right.

(28:57) **Texture**: Correct.

(28:57) **Bob**: That detail.

(28:59) **Texture**: Yeah.

(28:59) **Bob**: I mean, I guess it's like, you know, with sort of U.S. legal 
stuff, you know, this this hot liquid might burn you or whatever. You just know 
that some shit's happened in the past. The reason that all of these things that 
happened is someone has done something really fucking stupid.

(29:15) **Texture**: Yeah. And I, you know, as after I became a father, I 
became really a huge proponent of the idea of if you think a stupid rule exists 
because the person who made it is stupid. You haven't thought through the 
problem.

(30:03) **Bob**: Yeah. On this human side, something I talked about during my 
maple syrup piece phase was neurodiversity and the fact that normies would not 
be involved in the early phases of such a project. It's absolutely crazy to go 
and do what you did.

(30:56) **Texture**: I think it's just the structure of how things have always 
occurred. Right. So you have these kind of people on the front edge.

(35:50) **Bob**: It does. It does.

(35:52) **Texture**: And maybe it does.

(35:54) **Bob**: That's really a failure, as you say, on delivery of the 
holistic platform that you do need something which is absolutely better. It's 
just like a product question, really, right? It's saying, unless the product 
that you are offering is absolutely better than something existing, or is 
cheaper or gives you some other benefits or whatever, then normal people are 
not going to use it.

(36:40) **Texture**: And so I think exchanges and things like that kind of 
acting as a buffer, it's a step. Ultimately, how are these things going to be 
used? The end user is probably not going to know what they're using on the back 
end any more than the average person knows what processor is in their phone.

(37:07) **Bob**: I mean, I guess the hope is it's like a layering thing, right? 
That in the same way as you've got those DeFi primitives, that you're going to 
layer this whatever social recovery or buffered amounts or whatever, or 
insurance for fuck-ups or all this sort of stuff, right? You should be able to 
put together a stack of things that have an equivalent kind of characteristic 
and experience to existing things, but without that strong dependence on a 
single legal entity that's got that customer service provider kind of pattern, 
rather than just it being raw, dangerous, as you experienced there.

(37:50) **Texture**: To this day, I feel anxious all the time because I hold 
crypto. Me, I feel anxious all the time.

(38:03) **Bob**: I think we all do.

(38:05) **Texture**: That's not an experience that the average person wants. 
The average person wants to put their money in a bank account. The average 
person wants to click a button and if something goes wrong, to be able to 
reverse it.

(38:45) **Bob**: Yeah, yeah. So, I mean, when I was looking through sort of 
different phases of this period that I've been covering in the early days of 
Ethereum website there, I was noticing. So, in January and February 2014, 
there's just such a flood of people that came in.

(39:33) **Texture**: It turned everything into Game of Thrones. Yeah, that's 
what happened. It turned everything into Game of Thrones.

(41:39) **Bob**: Yeah. And I mean, I guess that Miami house was where that 
really dug in because that was the first time that most people were physically 
in the same location out of that set of people.

(41:52) **Texture**: The weirdest part about that was meeting Charles. And, you 
know, Charles, he might have been the first person who is doing kind of the 
thing that I just said. Right.

(46:19) **Bob**: Well, Amir was kind of kicked out from what I saw based on the 
fact that people thought he wasn't actually doing anything. He wasn't really 
like pulling his weight or doing anything useful.

(46:29) **Texture**: I like Amir as a person. We haven't talked to him in a few 
years. We're still cool to this day.

(46:39) **Bob**: I don't know. There's Debbie sort of stuff. He said he was he 
was talking to people, potential investors sort of thing.

(47:02) **Texture**: You know, I defended you on that because I think you're 
like a really sweet guy and I think I understand your perspective. So whether 
or not I like Charles, I'm going to come defend you. Not to dig too much, but 
Charles is kind of like buddy, assistant, partner guy.

(47:23) **Bob**: Jeremy Wood.

(47:24) **Texture**: Yeah. And maybe there was more there. But I'm just to 
Texture's point, you know, maybe he was just naive or maybe he has no more than 
I do.

(48:01) **Bob**: With Jeremy Wood, he notably called him boy. Come here, boy.

(48:06) **Texture**: I never saw that. I'm telling you, like, I remember some 
story about him, like, playing games with people in the ZUG house, like sending 
somebody's sending somebody off who was like a wife was there a girlfriend and 
telling them that they had to go do this thing for him out of town. And then 
when that person had left, he then tried to convince one of the other dudes to, 
like, get with the dude's wife.

(50:47) **Bob**: Yeah, I heard that London location was pretty special.

(50:52) **Texture**: It was weird, man.

(50:57) **Bob**: Did you say you were never in ZUG?

(51:00) **Texture**: No, I never went. So my girlfriend at the time was 
pregnant. I had spent a month in Panama with Eric Voorhees and his team while 
she was pregnant.

(51:43) **Bob**: I mean, all of this was prior to both the crowd sale and the 
formation of the Ethereum Foundation, right? So the red wedding was 3rd of 
June, 2014, where you had that, I guess, final decision of the foundation 
happening versus the for-profit. Because you had people coming, notably 
Antimedia Aurea, coming to ZUG at that point to sign papers, right?

(52:57) **Texture**: Yeah. We kept saying two weeks. I don't know.

(53:07) **Bob**: Well, the website that was up at the time of the Miami 
conference was showing a countdown to the 1st of February. That was when the 
sales were going to start.

(53:17) **Texture**: Yeah. And then, you know, I was with Vitalik when the sale 
was launched. We had hung out all day in San Francisco.

(53:48) **Bob**: No. That was an accidental launch, was it?

(53:51) **Texture**: It was an accident. I don't know. You'll have to ask 
Taylor about that.

(54:11) **Bob**: So you and Kieran must have met each other a little bit.

(54:14) **Texture**: Yeah.

(54:15) **Bob**: At various times.

(54:16) **Texture**: Yeah. We've actually hung out more probably in the last 
five years than we did back then. Yeah.

(54:27) **Bob**: And I guess that Kieran, you saw more of that sort of New 
York-y legal side of things.

(54:34) **Texture**: Yeah. Okay. This is a good tie-in point.

(59:13) **Bob**: But yeah, I mean, I guess, you know, many that was the case 
for many people through those months, you know, for some people that was nine, 
10 months of unpaid contributions.

(59:29) **Texture**: My memory is also that Anthony was the main force behind 
sort of quite stopping but delaying the funding to the CCRG. So like somehow we 
got it, some of it way later.

(59:43) **Bob**: DRO.

(59:44) **Texture**: DRO. Yeah. And it was like, not quite the original amount, 
but it was still some, but we were all like working on different things at that 
time.

(1:01:10) **Bob**: I think you had Gav incorporating Ethereum dev in Berlin. 
Jeff in Amsterdam, though, that took quite a few months, more legalities to it. 
And there was an Ethereum in London as well.

(1:03:02) **Texture**: Yeah, I think I guess they must have got it kind of like 
having now run a business for a long time, you got to set up sensible contracts 
and IP agreements. And or, you know, sometimes that looks like an intercompany 
agreement. And then, you know, if you do it in the buttoned up way, there's 
like a lot of headache associated with such things.

(1:03:26) **Bob**: I think it was a lot looser than that.

(1:03:28) **Texture**: I have a strong memory. Yes, of like a, let's just put 
all the money in this other legal entity discussion going on, like during the 
whole red wedding week. So, yes.

(1:03:42) **Bob**: Yes. And yes, the majority of those legal entities have 
since been shut down. That was something that Ming did over the course of her 
time was tidy up all of this like corporate mess that was maybe not really 
required in the first place.

(1:04:11) **Texture**: They could have just worked for the foundation, but I 
guess they didn't they didn't want to be in Switzerland, which maybe was part 
of it. And I remember it.

(1:04:21) **Bob**: Well, this was another funny thing. Right. With the with the 
spaceship was that there was an expectation at the start that it was going to 
be a lot of development work happening in Switzerland as well.

(1:04:35) **Texture**: Also, it it kind of goes against the Charles was fired 
for wanting to make it corporate when every single person filed their own 
corporate legal entity in an attempt to divert the funds to their own personal 
power structure. Yeah, I'll, I'll, I'll add, because I was in the room for some 
of this, Gavin immediately started talking about brain drain when there was to 
be no crypto Google. So I guess like they for for a long time, they wanted to 
do hybrid for profit, nonprofit.

(1:08:00) **Bob**: Yeah, I mean, it's something which I've seen people comment 
on a fair bit is, you know, the early contributor slice, which was 9.9% of the 
ether, which was shared between the people who did contribute over those of 
emulants, 10 months or so, is equal to the amount that the Ethereum Foundation 
received. So, you know, all of the developments of everything which happened 
after that July to the current day has had that same bucket. And, you know, 
that is not a typical kind of setup for, you know, long term success.

(1:09:02) **Texture**: Yeah.

(1:09:02) **Bob**: But it would be nice if some people hung around some more.

(1:09:06) **Texture**: Yeah, I mean, I think to some degree, that's why I'm 
still here in this space, that and the guilt of learning what people do with 
the things you create and feeling some sort of like responsibility to kind of 
try to nudge in a direction, you know, but balancing that with my desire to be 
anonymous to the most degree that I can was difficult.

(1:09:32) **Bob**: Yeah, yeah, I'm sure. I mean, it was something which came 
up, I think, through sort of 2018, 2019 as well was the Foundation stiffing 
developers, essentially.

(1:09:48) **Texture**: Yeah, I don't know. That didn't happen to me, praise the 
Dalit.

(1:09:53) **Bob**: No, no. It's alright for you early guys. But yeah, what else 
they have noted?

(1:10:25) **Texture**: You mean, in the last 10 years?

(1:10:30) **Bob**: Right, right. I mean, this is quite a contrast, right? In 
your Coinbase article, you were speaking about the contrast, right, between 
the, you know, your open, decentralized, collaborative space and the Foundation 
as an entity.

(1:10:46) **Texture**: Yeah, so I think that it's difficult because if you look 
at, you know, this is my personal assessment, how I think about the situation. 
If you look at the early days, and you take all that political shit seriously, 
and you realize that Metallic's basically like a 18 year old kid in the middle 
of this, like, I was underprepared for the political shit, but I wasn't even 
like the center of it, you know. Metallic had to be pushed into this weird 
situation where all of these sharks and snakes were around and where Charles is 
acting some type of way.

(1:19:46) **Bob**: Yeah, I mean, I, from my perspective, I think the change of 
leadership that there was this year with Thomas coming in as a co-ED has made a 
world of difference, you know, that they have become more transparent than has 
been the case before. And I think that he as a Ethereum company CEO, because 
he's the CEO of Nevermind as well, I think has given him that kind of like 
product holistic, getting shit done kind of perspective that hasn't before. And 
he's got the credibility of having been in the ecosystem as well.

(1:20:45) **Texture**: Yeah.

(1:20:45) **Bob**: And I think there hasn't been that before. You know, he is a 
CEO type.

(1:20:50) **Texture**: He, he was, I did a call with him. We talked for a bit 
and he seemed great. Asked a lot of questions and said he talked to over 100 
people and I gave him some of my thoughts and criticisms.

(1:21:28) **Bob**: There might be another coup.

(1:21:29) **Texture**: That's what I'm saying. Like, you know, you could be the 
best guy with the best intentions, with the best ideas and you're the guy to do 
it. And if, if the power structure is designed around, you know, placating 
people who are only concerned about their place in the palace, you know, it's 
happened to me multiple times in my life.

(1:23:21) **Bob**: Yeah. I make this the, the sick epoch that there's been. So 
we have white paper to red, red, red wedding, whereas essentially, you know, 
just no formal structures really, you know, emergent.

(1:24:04) **Texture**: Becker.

(1:24:06) **Bob**: Kelly Becker kind of like overseeing the installation of the 
new professional in quotes board that began the Ming dynasty where she 
immediately knocked off all the other directors. And then she had her three 
years of, of tyranny. And then you had the infinite garden with Aya coming in, 
in the, another coup there in February 2018.

(1:24:48) **Texture**: Yeah.

(1:24:48) **Bob**: So, yeah, I don't know what this period comes to be called.

(1:24:51) **Texture**: It's definitely better and more coherent. You know, I, 
I'm prescient a lot of the time and, you know, I had my encounters with Aya 
that clued me into the fact that she was not really qualified or even 
coherently involved in a way that I would assume somebody in her position will 
be. So I was, you know, I was applying pressure years ago, years and years ago.

(1:27:19) **Bob**: It was a longer tweet thread of me ranting a little bit. 
Well, it wasn't very ranty. Actually, it was quite polite in in late in late.

(1:28:53) **Texture**: I mean, I don't know, in retrospect, if I'd known that. 
I mean, I know you said she was a nightmare, but she did offer to hire me back 
into the Ethereum Foundation. But I didn't feel it was a time where I didn't 
really feel like working.

(1:29:19) **Bob**: She should have Ming'd you. Don't worry, you wouldn't have 
lasted long if she came back.

(1:29:24) **Texture**: Maybe, maybe, maybe, you know. Everyone got Ming'd. If 
she was like Stefan, then yeah, that high energy, like stress stuff.

(1:29:35) **Bob**: But yeah, I mean, you know, so I think that was the problem, 
like that you hadn't got enough people to get anything done, you know, like 
like what you talked about with Aya. That was that was the case in that earlier 
year as well. There wasn't really no organizational structure and nothing 
really much was happening beyond the developers doing their development.

(1:29:58) **Texture**: Yeah. Well, you asked about the palace politics thing 
and I just had a memory. You know, people, it's much less now than it used to 
be.

(1:31:24) **Bob**: At the recent FCC in Cannes, there was a slide which Jerome 
had on there, which was talking about dissenting voices. And both myself and 
Greg Colvin were up there as as Ethereum dissidents.

(1:31:43) **Texture**: I didn't get it. It's all right. Nobody remembers me.

(1:31:47) **Bob**: No, sorry. You're not. You're not known enough.

(1:31:52) **Texture**: Oh, no.

(1:31:52) **Bob**: You're not. You're not being loud enough.

(1:31:55) **Texture**: No, it's all right. I only have the number of followers 
I do because a couple of jokes I made, one of them being Petra Pong Sai. I very 
much don't mind being lost to history if it means I'm not on someone's let's 
rob the sky list.

(1:32:17) **Bob**: Well, I think that's maybe a good kind of place to wrap up.

(1:32:20) **Texture**: Yeah, don't.

(1:32:21) **Bob**: I wish you all the very best and enjoy your life.

(1:32:29) **Texture**: Yeah. Well, Bob, thanks for having me on. If you want to 
have me on again, I'm more than happy to always give you my time.

(1:32:45) **Bob**: Great.

(1:32:46) **Texture**: Great to chat again. And we'll do again soon. Yeah, 
maybe.

(1:32:58) **Bob**: OK. Thanks a lot. So, yeah.

(1:33:11) **Texture**: No, I'm not. No. Just have a nice night.

(1:33:21) **Bob**: Thanks so much. OK.

(1:33:23) **Texture**: Cheers, everyone. Bye.

